Ideas for Juno Hack

Key phrases: “Consumer Health Hackathon”; “Chronic Disease”; “Voice AI”; “ Voice agents”; “Conversational products”

Generic solutions: saving time, reduce friction, increases confidence/trust, curates, analyses, critique/reviews, anticipates, de-risks, catches errors, distracts/entertains, reduce mental load, resource allocation/planning, equanimity, justice/truth. 

Problem: Being a hospital inpatient can be a stressful and confusing time. There are many questions, uncertainties, plans, changes to plans, new problems, many staff looking after you. It can get a bit much. Your children or spouse visit and ask what’s going on - memory fails. Frustration for the family. Imbalance of power. Doctors are often busy to always attend to every single question from family members. Ward rounds (when the medical team visits each bedside for 5mins and make important decisions for the day) happen early in the mornings, sometimes delayed due to emergencies. Family members have to work and cannot stay to act as the patient’s advocate or ask questions. Doctors may want to update the family or discuss important decisions. Finding a suitable time for a family meeting can be a challenge. Updating multiple family members is super annoying. 

Solution: Short audiovisual recordings, smart transcription with realtime acronym explainer, suggested follow-up questions, advocate a challenge if senses patient or family would be opposed, summarised encounter notes. Asynchronous video messaging function to aid communication. Searchable history of events during admission. Patient-held EHR (as opposed to the default of EHR belonging to the health org). In essence, this virtual assistant advocates for the patient, aids communication with family members, helps keep track of what’s going on, aids understanding by the patient. 

Problem: In hospitals, telephone conversations between medical professionals are largely unrecorded, undocumented and relies on hearing correctly (noisy environments are common), questioning/challenging if bold enough (often there is a power dynamic imbalance eg nurse-doctor; junior doctor-consultant), people can be rude, abusive; referrals can be inappropriate or even unprofessional). Often, we do not know the full name of who is calling, only their role (eg a GP wanting advice about a patient). When things go wrong, because these convos are unrecorded, it can become a case of he said she said. 

Solution: AI agent that sits on top of telephone convos, identifies each party/speaker, timestamps. Quietly transcribing in the background while humans speak, but pipes up to ask for clarification for potential mistakes if it sense the environment was noisy (“quick question - did you mean penicillin or amoxicillin as the line wasn’t clear?”). AI can also assist within the call (eg with a prompt “I wonder what the second line treatment of tonsillitis is?”) by searching about treatment guidelines, in real time; about physical location of the caller. After the call, the transcript gets e-mailed or texted to both numbers. The call could be replayed if recorded, to check for nuance or details. Knowing that AI is listening in and convos are being transcribed, people would think twice about being abusive or lie.